Image Seeds
===========

The ``--image-seeds`` argument can be used to specify one or more image input resource groups
for use in rendering, and allows for the specification of img2img source images, inpaint masks,
controlnet guidance images, deep floyd stage images, image group resizing, and frame slicing values
for animations. It possesses it's own URI syntax for defining different image inputs used for image generation,
the example described below is the simplest case for one image input (img2img).

This example uses a photo of Buzz Aldrin on the moon to generate a photo of an astronaut standing on mars
using img2img, this uses an image seed downloaded from wikipedia.

Disk file paths may also be used for image seeds and generally that is the standard use case,
multiple image seed definitions may be provided and images will be generated from each image
seed individually.

.. code-block:: bash

    #!/usr/bin/env bash

    # Generate this image using 5 different seeds, 3 different inference-step values, 3 different
    # guidance-scale values as above.

    # In addition this image will be generated using 3 different image seed strengths.

    # Adjust output size to 512x512 and output generated images to 'astronaut' folder, the image seed
    # will be resized to that dimension with aspect ratio respected by default, the width is fixed and
    # the height will be calculated, this behavior can be changed globally with the --no-aspect option
    # if desired or locally by specifying "img2img-seed.png;aspect=false" as your image seed

    # If you do not adjust the output size of the generated image, the size of the input image seed will be used.

    # 135 uniquely named images will be generated (5x3x3x3)

    dgenerate stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-1 \
    --prompts "an astronaut walking on mars" \
    --image-seeds https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/98/Aldrin_Apollo_11_original.jpg \
    --image-seed-strengths 0.2 0.5 0.8 \
    --gen-seeds 5 \
    --output-path astronaut \
    --inference-steps 30 40 50 \
    --guidance-scales 5 7 10 \
    --output-size 512x512


``--image-seeds`` serves as the entire mechanism for determining if img2img or inpainting is going to occur via
it's URI syntax described further in the section `Inpainting`_.

In addition to this it can be used to provide control guidance images in the case of txt2img, img2img, or inpainting
via the use of a URI syntax involving keyword arguments.

The syntax ``--image-seeds "my-image-seed.png;control=my-control-image.png"`` can be used with ``--control-nets`` to specify
img2img mode with a ControlNet for example, see: `Specifying ControlNets`_ for more information.

IP Adapter images may be provided via a special ``adapters: ...`` syntax and
via the ``adapters`` URI argument discussed in: `Specifying IP Adapters`_

Batching or providing multiple image inputs for the same generation, resulting in multiple output
variations possibly using different input images, or multiple image prompts, is possible using the
``images: ...`` syntax discussed in the section: `Batching Input Images and Inpaint Masks`_.

For ``img2img`` sources, you may also specify a ``pt``, ``pth``, or ``safetensors`` file,
this is for passing in latents in place of images in pixel space, image processing will not be
applied to these inputs and will be ignored with warnings, this includes resizing, aspect
correction, alignment, and image processors. Latents can be generated by using the
option ``--image-format`` with the value ``pt``, ``pth``,  or ``safetensors``.

Latent ``img2img`` input is not supported for ``--model-type torch-s-cascade`` as Stable Cascade
cannot perform traditional ``img2img``, and will result in an error if attempted. Latent input
is also not supported for ControlNet/T2I Adapter guidance images, or IP Adapter images, as
these guidance models operate on images in pixel space.
